Refactor relationship pages and add single relationships description (#293)
neo4j/docs-graphql: modules/ROOT/pages/relationships/index.adoc

[[relationships]]
= Relationships
:page-aliases: type-definitions/relationships.adoc type-definitions/relationships/relationships.adoc

> :description: This page describes how to write type definitions for a simple connected model, inserting data through the schema, and then querying it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:description: This section covers how relationships work in the Neo4j GraphQL Library.
```

> Without relationships, your type definitions work rather as a collection of disconnected nodes, with little value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Without relationships, your type definitions represent a collection of disconnected nodes with little value.
```

> Adding relationships into your data model gives your data the context that it needs to run complex queries across wide sections of your graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding relationships to your data model gives your data the context that it needs to run complex queries across wide sections of your graph.
```

> This page describes how to write type definitions for a simple connected model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page describes how to write type definitions for a simple connected model by using introducing relationships.
```

> For examples of operations, see xref::/mutations/create.adoc#_relationships[`inserting`] and xref::/queries-aggregations/queries.adoc#_relationships[`querying`] data.

Reviewer: what's the correlation here to the rest of the intro? why do we mention operations here?

== Data model

> Take the following graph as an example in which the `Person` and `Movie` types are connected by a single relationship type, *ACTED_IN*. The relationship has a property `roles` which describes the different roles that an actor played in a movie.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take the following graph as an example in which the `Person` and `Movie` types are connected by a single relationship type, `ACTED_IN`.
The relationship has a property `roles` which describes the different roles that an actor played in a movie.
```

image::relationships/relationship-with-properties.png[title="Model of a Movie node connected to a Person node through a relationship of type ACTED_IN, with a roles property."]

== Writing type definitions

=== Nodes

> To create that graph using the Neo4j GraphQL Library, first you need to define the two node types together with their fields. In order for these types to be represented as nodes in the graph, they need to be decorated with the `@node` directive. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create the graph using the Neo4j GraphQL Library, first define the two node types together with their fields.
In order for these types to be represented as nodes in the graph, decorate them with the xref::/directives/database-mapping.adoc#_node[`@node` directive]. 
```

> See more xref::/directives/database-mapping.adoc#_node[`@node` directive].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

(incorporated the link in the line(s) above

.Defining the node types
[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type Person @node {
    name: String!
}

type Movie @node {
    title: String!
    released: Int!
}
----

=== Relationships

> You can then define the relationships between these two types by adding special relationship fields using the `@relationship` directive. See more xref::/directives/database-mapping.adoc#_relationship[`@relationship` directive].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Define the relationships between the two types by adding special relationship fields using the xref::/directives/database-mapping.adoc#_relationship[`@relationship` directive].
```

> A `Person` can _act in_ multiple movies, and a `Movie` can have multiple actors. Conceptually this is a *many-to-many* relationship and we model it by using list types for both relationship fields, on both sides of the relationship.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `Person` can act in multiple movies, and a `Movie` can have multiple actors.
Conceptually this is a *many-to-many* relationship which is modeled by using list types for both relationship fields, on both sides of the relationship.
```

> A `Person` can _act in_ multiple movies, and a `Movie` can have multiple actors. Conceptually this is a *many-to-many* relationship and we model it by using list types for both relationship fields, on both sides of the relationship.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `Person` can _act in_ multiple movies, and a `Movie` can have multiple actors. Conceptually this is a many-to-many relationship and you can model it by using list types for both relationship fields, on both sides of the relationship.
```

.Defining the relationship fields
[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type Person @node {
    name: String!
    actedInMovies: [Movie!]! @relationship(type: "ACTED_IN", direction: OUT)
}

type Movie @node {
    title: String!
    released: Int!
    actors: [Person!]! @relationship(type: "ACTED_IN", direction: IN)
}
----

=== Relationship direction

> The *direction* argument is relative to the node type on which the `@relationship` directive is used, the value *IN* meaning arrow pointing towards this node, while *OUT* means arrow points towards the other node. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *direction* argument is relative to the node type on which the `@relationship` directive is used.
The value `IN` means that the relationship points to this node while `OUT` means that the relationship originates from this node. 
```

> In the example graph, `Person-[ACTED_IN]->Movie` means relationship of type ACTED_IN goes IN to a Movie, therefore Movie.actors relationship field has `direction: IN`. It follows that `Actors.actedInMovies` relationship field has `direction: OUT` because the relationship goes OUT from a Person to a Movie.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example graph, `Person-[ACTED_IN]->Movie` means that the relationship of type `ACTED_IN` points to a Movie, therefore the `Movie.actors` relationship field has `direction: IN`.
Conversely, the `Actors.actedInMovies` relationship field has `direction: OUT` because the relationship originates from a Person and points to a Movie.
```

> To figure out whether the *direction* argument of the `@relationship` directive should be *IN* or *OUT* it can be helpful to visualize your graph like in the diagram above and model out the direction of the arrows. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To figure out whether the direction argument of the `@relationship` directive should be `IN` or `OUT` it can be helpful to visualize your graph like in the diagram above and model the direction of the arrows. 
```

> 

Reviewer: maybe we could add a line that both the start and the destination of a relationship have to be modeled separately (and that the option of underspecifying one of them exists)

Author: added it in Modeling relationships section in Cardinality page - what do you think?

=== Relationship properties

> The *ACTED_IN* relationship has a property `roles` which describes the different roles that an actor played in a movie. To model this, we need to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ACTED_IN` relationship has a property `roles` which describes the different roles that an actor played in a movie.
To model this:
```

> . Add an *ActedIn* type decorated with the `@relationshipProperties` directive, containing the desired relationship properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add an `ActedIn` type decorated with the `@relationshipProperties` directive, containing the desired relationship properties.
```

> . Set the `@relationship` directive's *properties* argument value to *ActedIn*. This can be done on both or either side of the relationship, depending on where you want to query the relationship properties from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set the `@relationship` directive's `properties` argument value to `ActedIn`. This can be done on both or either side of the relationship, depending on where you want to query the relationship properties from.
```

[[relationships]]
= Relationships
:page-aliases: relationships/relationships.adoc 
:description: This section covers how relationships work in the Neo4j GraphQL Library.

Without relationships, your type definitions represent a collection of disconnected nodes with little value.
Adding relationships to your data model gives your data the context that it needs to run complex queries across wide sections of your graph.

This section describes how to model and interact with relationships in your GraphQL schema:

> * Read along to find out the <<_anatomy_of_a_relationship,anatomy of a relationship>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Read along to find out about the <<_anatomy_of_a_relationship,anatomy of a relationship>>.
```

* Learn about the different operations on relationships in xref:relationships/operations.adoc[relationship operations].

> * Learn about the different ways to model relationships in the GraphQL schema in xref:relationships/cardinality.adoc[modeling relationships].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Learn about the different ways of modeling relationships in the GraphQL schema in xref:relationships/cardinality.adoc[modeling relationships].
```

> * Understand the concept of xref:relationships/single-relationships.adoc[single relationships].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Learn about the concept of xref:relationships/single-relationships.adoc[single relationships].
```

[[relationships]]
= Relationships
:page-aliases: type-definitions/relationships.adoc type-definitions/relationships/relationships.adoc
:description: This page describes how to write type definitions for a simple connected model, inserting data through the schema, and then querying it.

Without relationships, your type definitions work rather as a collection of disconnected nodes, with little value.
Adding relationships into your data model gives your data the context that it needs to run complex queries across wide sections of your graph.

This page describes how to write type definitions for a simple connected model.

For examples of operations, see xref::/mutations/create.adoc#_relationships[`inserting`] and xref::/queries-aggregations/queries.adoc#_relationships[`querying`] data.

== Data model

Take the following graph as an example in which the `Person` and `Movie` types are connected by a single relationship type, *ACTED_IN*. The relationship has a property `roles` which describes the different roles that an actor played in a movie.

> image::relationships/relationship-with-properties.png[title="Model of a Movie node connected to a Person node through a relationship of type ACTED_IN, with a roles property."]

Reviewer 2: Nice

. Add an *ActedIn* type decorated with the `@relationshipProperties` directive, containing the desired relationship properties.
. Set the `@relationship` directive's *properties* argument value to *ActedIn*. This can be done on both or either side of the relationship, depending on where you want to query the relationship properties from.

.Defining relationship properties
[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type ActedIn @relationshipProperties {
    roles: [String!]
}

type Person @node {
    name: String!
    actedIn: [Movie!]! @relationship(type: "ACTED_IN", properties: "ActedIn", direction: OUT)
    directed: [Movie!]! @relationship(type: "DIRECTED", direction: OUT)
}

type Movie @node {
    title: String!
    released: Int!
    actors: [Person!]! @relationship(type: "ACTED_IN", properties: "ActedIn", direction: IN)
    directors: Person @relationship(type: "DIRECTED", direction: IN)
}
----

[NOTE]
====
Relationship properties fields can only be primitive types or their list variants.
You cannot have relationship properties of a complex type such as object types or interfaces.

> ====

Reviewer 2: Maybe this shouldn't be a `[NOTE]`? Just to avoid ovrerloading the document

Author: I think it's important enough to be a NOTE, but I removed the one below bc I think it's more relevant in the Queries
